What an incredible day as OpenAI is finally releasing GBT6 Astra. It's officially rolling out and this thing is an absolute monster already taking the number one spot across multiple domains. This isn't just another small upgrade from OpenAI cuz Astra brings massive improvements across coding, computer use, agents, reasoning, and even cyber security. In fact, OpenAI believes that this model is so capable that Greg Brockman is literally calling this the beginning of the AGI era. And after seeing what Asher can actually do, I can understand why. Like I'd mentioned benchmark-wise, this is where it excels in almost everything at a substantial gain. Like on Arc AGI 3, this is where it has now recorded a 98.6 percentage. This is a benchmark that was released to essentially evaluate these newer models on a harder scale, but this new model exceptionally kills it, surpassing it and almost completing this benchmark on hard bench as well as everything like terminal bench 4. You can see that there is substantial gains across all of these individual benchmarks being cheaper as well as being better in many of these different cases. And based on the results shown, Astro beats GBT 5.6 Soul across every test listed by a substantial gain. This is not looking like a normal model update. It is one of the biggest model updates that we have ever seen. Now something else I want to mention is that when it comes to computer use, this model also does quite well in this specific domain because OpenAI is calling Astra to be the best computer use model and the benchmarks definitely back that up. This is where you can simply tell it to do something and Astra will actually operate your computer and it is going to be able to complete that task whether if it's a complex task across different applications. We're talking about filling out forms, updating CRM, which is something that they have talked about within their blog post. It is something that can do this insanely well, especially analyzing data information online, drafting emails. It can do all of this quite efficiently and quite fast. And that is one of the selling points of this model. It is something that can do this at a pretty great scale. So, it is going to be something that most people are going to be using in a lot of different use cases, especially when it comes to productivity. This is something that can autonomously even install software, test it for you, troubleshoot problems directly from what it sees on the screen, as well as having it so that it can refine anything that you have within your complex project. Essentially, we're getting to a point where AI doesn't just answer questions or just generate code nowadays. it is able to actually sit at a computer and actually do the work that you give it, which is insane. And that is a clear sign that we're getting really, really close to AGI. Most AI coding tools can build you an app, but then they still have to figure out hosting, databases, and deployment. That's where Abacus AI supercomputer comes in. It gives you an always on cloud computer controlled through natural language. You can deploy agents like openclaw or Hermes agent and keep them running 24/7. For example, here they deployed an open-source large nuggage model, wrap it with a working chat interface and it is hosted publicly all from a single prompt. You can also run Docker apps, connect databases and storage or build and host complete applications like this 3D game. So instead of managing a VPS, SSL, databases, and deployment yourself, Abacus handles the entire stack. Check out Avacus AI supercomputer through the links in the description below, and thanks to them for sponsoring today's video. Now, when it comes to availability, the GBT6 Astra is officially rolling out today, starting with a limited set of organizations. But over the next few days, Astro will become available through ChatG Plus, Pro, Business, and Enterprise users alongside access through their Open AI API as well as AWS. And OpenAI specifically says that if you want to experience Astra at its best, you should be getting the GPT desktop app, which makes a lot of sense considering how heavily this model is focused on computer use and actually taking actions on your behalf. Also, something very important to note, this is actually a pretty expensive model. It is listed at $10 per 1 million input tokens and $50 per 1 million output tokens. Basically competing with what the Fable 5.1 is. That's around 2.5 times more expensive than GBT 5.6 Soul, which is the current pricing. But Astra is basically the best model that you will ever touch. And that is something that is definitely not an overstatement. This has massive improvements in computer use, coding, agentic task, reasoning, everything that you can name. Now, this is one of the craziest things about Astra. This is where Astra demos are coming from Pico in this current snippet. And they essentially gave Astra one basic gray box cart prototype. And from that, it created three different completely themed games in one go. One is a pirate game, the second is a candy game, and a cyberpunk game. And apparently most of them worked on the first try, requiring around 50% fewer manual fixes compared to the previous model. But here is the really impressive part. Astra doesn't just sprite the code. It can play the game inside Unity, see what's broken, and then go back and fix those bugs. So you're basically watching the model through this entire loop of building, playing, finding problems, fixing them, and testing again. That's a huge step towards genuinely autonomous game development, autonomous coding, and just full autonomy. Now, when it comes to the world of AI, vibe coding platform, and benchmark, this is where the new GBT6 Astra is leading all of these different domains, it excels, topping Fable 5.1, Fable, Opus, GPT 5.1.6 by a substantial gain. And if you want to run your own benchmarks, you can easily do so and get started for free directly with the links in the description below, as well as accessing my prompt library. And speaking of games, OpenAI also showed off this GBT6 Astra cart racer demo, which was created by Pyro. And the crazy thing here is that Astro can take relatively simple instructions and turn them into actual playable games with detailed graphics, proper movement, and engaging gameplay. Meaning even someone with basically no game development can experience what it feels like to be a game dev by just simply prompting with the GBT6 Astra. And this is where it can create a full-fledged game, which is something that you can even sell. It's kind of nuts. Now, the biggest improvement seems to be browser control overall from all the demos that I have seen coding games as well as general knowledge work. And these are just a couple of different domains that are something that are quite prominent with this model. It's significantly faster in browser, highly steerable, and can work autonomously for extended periods. Game development is especially impressive. We're talking about extremely close to true prompted playable games that are actually fun. And Astra's 3D understanding is apparently unmatched with much better spatial awareness and consistent 3D asset creation. Writing has also improved too with less of the typical AI smell. Although it's still not perfect yet. There's a lot of stuff in the AI space that I don't really put on to the YouTube channel and you can actually access it through my free newsletter with the link in the description below where you can subscribe completely for free. Now here the GBT6 Astra had done a pretty remarkable job in creating this Minecraft clone with shaders and actual functional components that represent the actual game with even uh different icons that depict the different items in the game. So it takes a further step from even what the Fable 5.1 had done. They even created a village. You have lighting. You have different breaking block animations. And all of the assets seem to represent what the original sandbox game does, as well as just creating all the small things that you would see from the original game like the wheat farm as well as the water physics. Everything seems to be thoroughly generated with this specific prompt. Another really cool example is where Astra is working directly with Unity where Astra takes existing assets and assembles an entire city scene into an immersive 3D environment based on what the user wants. Now we're definitely are seeing a visual improvement obviously with AI generated demos, but remember this is being done inside Unity which is significantly harder for these models to work with. And OpenAI has also upgraded the codeex harness alongside Astra, making computer use significantly faster. So combined with Codeex and the new Astra model, it is something that is able to do many of these tasks faster obviously in comparison to GBT 5.6 Soul, but as well as with other models as well. And that is definitely one of the bigger stories here. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the super thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. When it comes to SVG, it excels in this specific domain, surpassing Fable, Gemini, whatever model that you can think of. It just beats it outright. And this might be one of the craziest things that I have seen Astra do. This is from Matt Shurmer and he had essentially have Astra build out an entire world in Unreal Engine, fill it out with humans powered by Astra itself and have those agents work together to survive. A day later, he had literally heard voices coming from his living room and thought that someone was inside his apartment. But it actually turned out that Astra was having these agents talk to each other inside this simulation. So it actually created a game and created a simulation inside that game with functional AI agents working and talking to each other to create a functional livable simulation. Obviously, it's not perfect, but the fact that Astra can help build a world populated by AI agents and independently interact and communicate is absolutely an insane feat. Here, the GBT6 Astra was put up against the GPT 5.6 Soul and Fable 5.1 from Enthropic. Astro finished it with the specific prompt to create a flight simulator in about 20 and a half minute using 16.28 28 million tokens at roughly $28 while GBZ5.6 soul took almost the same amount of time but costed only I think $661. Now, this isn't a perfect applestoapple benchmark cuz Astra was running on ultra with six sub agents, but soul was something that worked alone on high. But visually, Astra produced an incredibly generated flight simulator. And when it was compared directly with the Fable 5.1, it was something that surpassed it by a pretty great margin. So the big takeaway is obviously that Astra can deliver some seriously impressive results, but at the moment the extra capability can come at a significantly costly price tag. Also, when it comes to professional work, this is something that is something that can excel at spreadsheets. It can create presentations for you quite well. This is a reference document that was given to the Astra model and it was able to create a really cool looking presentation based off that reference. Even with spreadsheets, it's able to categorize output some really cool detailed data. It is also something that does quite well with document styling. And this is something that I also want to add on. The model does exceptionally well with front-end generations and you will see that with a couple of my demos that we'll be posting later on. It is something that excels across every domain. And I truly mean that. It's not an overstatement. It is just what this model is truly capable of. But that's basically just a gist of what the GBT6 Astra is. I'll leave all the links that I use in today's video in the description below. OpenAI has truly unlocked the door toaining AGI with this model and I am really really excited to use this on a day-to-day basis because this is truly a remarkable new model and it is something that blows all of the different models that we have seen out of the ballpark. But that's basically it guys. I'll leave all the links that I use in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI platform and vibe coding uh benchmark. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the second channel. Join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys also take a look at the school community. Join our YouTube channel by subscribing, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest AD news. But with that thought, guys, have an amazing day. Spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. He suffers.